Jordan A. Caraballo-Vega
University of Puerto Rico (UPR) Humacao Campus
Degree Pursued: Bachelor of Science 
Major: Computer Science

Jordan Alexis Caraballo-Vega is a senior at the University of Puerto Rico (UPR) at Humacao pursuing a Bachelor’s Degree in Computational Mathematics while majoring in Computer Science. Since the beginning of his early career, he has participated in several formal investigations related to chemical engineering, computational chemistry, materials science, IT/security, and programming directed to scientific applications.
Caraballo has been working since 2016 as a Security Intern/Trainee at Goddard Space Flight Center with the NASA Center for Climate Simulation as an Intern, an ADNET subcontractor, and now as a Pathways student. 
As the lead of the UPR-Computational Group for the last four years, he has been developing code to perform molecular dynamics simulations of nano-devices and biological systems interactions. Ongoing UPR projects under the Partnership for Research and Education in Materials involve simulations for capacitors made with nano-onions, gold nano-particles, and cellulose nano-crystals for fiber matts filters. 
In addition to NASA Goddard, he is a published author and has participated in summer internships at the University of Pennsylvania and UPR at Humacao. His most recent achievements include receiving the John Mather Nobel Scholarship (2017), the NASA MUREP Scholarship (2015), and the Bristol-Myers Squibb Industry Excellence in Science and Math Scholarship (2015).
Described as a dedicated leader and relentless worker, Caraballo has proven that age does not outweigh enthusiasm and dreams. Therefore, he plans to continue conducting productive research under securing and improving High-Performance Computing/Engineering environments at NASA. As he says, “People will not remember you for what you did through life, they will remember you by what you did in theirs.” More about his work can be found at https://github.com/jordancaraballo.
















Jordan Alexis Caraballo-Vega is in his last semester at the University of Puerto Rico (UPR) at Humacao pursuing a Bachelor’s Degree in Computational Mathematics while majoring in Computer Science. Caraballo was born and raised in the south-east side of Puerto Rico, where he has been the lead of the UPR Computational Group for the last five years. In this group he has been developing scientific software for the modeling of nano-devices and biological systems for electrical and medical purposes. Ongoing UPR projects under the NSF Partnership for Research and Education in Materials program include simulations for capacitors made with nano-onions, gold nano-particles, affinity membranes, and projects related to artificial intelligence (AI) for materials science applications.
Caraballo-Vega was one of the recipient of the NASA MUREP Scholarship in 2015, opportunity that landed him in his first NASA internship at the Goddard Space Flight Center. After this opportunity, Jordan started working as a Security Trainee with the High Performance Computing division at the NASA Center for Climate Simulation under the ADNET company. 
In 2018, Jordan became a Pathways Intern at NASA Goddard working for the Science Data Processing branch as an Engineering Trainee. Caraballo has extensive knowledge in the areas of log analysis, high performance computing, DevSecOps, data mining, and machine learning. In addition to NASA Goddard, he is a published author and has participated in summer internships at the University of Pennsylvania and UPR at Humacao. His most recent achievements include receiving the Microsoft Best Research Award (2019), the Dr. John C. Mather Nobel Scholarship (2017), the NASA MUREP Scholarship (2015), and the Bristol-Myers Squibb Industry Excellence in Science and Math Scholarship (2015).
Described as a dedicated leader and relentless worker, Caraballo has proven that age does not outweigh enthusiasm and dreams. Therefore, he plans to continue conducting productive research under securing and improving High-Performance Computing/Engineering environments at NASA, and applying AI techniques for the improvement of aerospace technologies. As he says, “People will not remember you for what you did through life, they will remember you by what you did in theirs.” More about his work can be found at https://github.com/jordancaraballo.
